I know we keep talking about AI, but it
seems like the timelines keep moving up
daily. I want you to watch this clip
from the CEO of Microsoft AI. In a
recent interview with the Financial
Times, let's play that clip for Sam.
>> You talk about super intelligence. Most
of your rivals talk about AGI,
artificial general intelligence. Explain
the difference between AGI and super
intelligence. I prefer the definition
that focuses first on what would it take
to build a system that could achieve
most of the tasks that a regular
professional in a workplace goes about
on a daily basis. Think of it as a
professionalgrade AGI.
>> How close are we?
>> I I think that we're going to have a
human level performance on most if not
all professional tasks. So white collar
work where you're sitting down at a
computer either being you know a lawyer
or an accountant or a project manager or
a marketing person most of those tasks
will be fully automated by an AI within
the next 12 to 18 months and we can see
this in software engineering. Um many
software engineers report that they are
now using AI assisted coding for the
vast majority of their code production
which means that their role shifted now
to this meta function of debugging
scrutinizing of doing the strategic
stuff like architecting of you know etc
etc putting things into production so
it's a quite different relationship to
the technology and that's happened in
the last six months.
>> What do you make of that? Um well so so
I know Mustafa a little bit very nice
guy and obviously he's he's very close
to this work. I mean he he came from
Deep Mind. He was one of the founders of
Deep Mind uh and uh moved over to to
Microsoft. Um so I you know I think his
prognostications are probably as
credible as anybody's at this point. Um
that's you know that's pretty alarming
when you when you think of the the
societal implications if you you in a
year we have um
the complete cancellation of uh the need
for human cognition of the white collar
type uh you know that's that's I don't
know how many people that is but it's a
lot of people and it's it's it's
basically um certainly most of the high
status jobs, right? I mean, the one of
the um ironies and and surprises here is
that that the robots are coming for the
the lawyers and doctors and and software
engineers before they're coming for the
janitors and and uh massage therapists
and nurses and
>> plumbers and um so it's um if you went
to college and and incurred $200,000 in
debt and that that degree enabled you to
get to the rung on the ladder that where
you're currently standing. Um
it's very likely that that part of the
ladder is um in the process of of
disappearing, right? and the in the
entire ladder. I mean, Mustafa is saying
that the latter itself is is uh
evaporating and and there's no question
that that already what what he's saying
now is in principle already true of the
the bottom rung of most of many of these
ladders, right? So like everyone in in a
hiring position, you know, is at at
virtually any company, uh, you know,
media company, tech company,
uh, whatever, marketing, etc. Um,
everyone's when they're thinking about
new hires, the prospect of having to
hire a 21-year-old coming out of
college, the first question they're
asking themselves is, is this even a
job? Do we can't we use AI for this
thing? Right? can't can't somebody I
who's already working for us figure out
how to use AI to do this thing? Do we
really need this guy coming out of
college? Um so that that's already
happening. You you have to think and I I
don't know when that's going to show up
in the labor statistics, but
>> Well, if he's saying 12 to 18 months, I
mean, you seem entirely too calm about
this. I mean, I I I I can't maybe we
just can't get our head around just
looking around and seeing at least 50%
of the people that we know have no jobs.
No, I mean I'm not I'm not calm about
it. I just I just see it's um
clearly we're going to have you know I I
don't know if it's UBI or some other
remedy but we are going to have to
figure out how to share the wealth right
it's just it's totally untenable to live
in a world where
um you get you know a few a few founders
or a dozen founders or 20 founders or
you know a hundred founders who become
stratospherically wealthy and then a a a
cohort below them who also get absurdly
wealthy. Uh and then you've got this
sort of ra it's almost like this fall of
Saigon moment where the kind of the last
person who can grasp the you know the
foot rails of a helicopter uh gets out.
So like what you're going to have are
some of the people who jump on the last
they get the last job right you know
it's like the the last hire at all these
companies uh before the the robots you
know fully take over. Um and then
there's going to kind of a be a
winnowing of of ex existing jobs from
there uh is totally untenable. We need
to we need to anticipate this. You know
if it's if it's only 18 months from now
or a year from now we should be
anticipating it right now. How do we
absorb this? Like what so if you if
you're founding a company that's going
to become a multi-billion dollar company
and it's going to have one employee,
right?
What should be happening there? like
like like shouldn't the should does the
does the public get equity in in any of
these companies right I mean like if if
if you if you've created a company that
obiates the need for human labor not
just in your company but across dozens
of other companies
what uh you know this gonna we we need
to create some mechanism by which the
the wealth gets shared
>> right
>> well speaking of that is um are you
familiar with California's wealth
tax proposal and do you think that's the
way to address it or do we need
something more on a national level? I
would think
>> well that well that's clearly not a way
to address it because there you have the
perverse incentives of you know just
people leaving the state right you know
you're going to drive the tech industry
to Texas or Florida or some some other
place that would wouldn't pass a law
like that um and that's so you need to
get the incentives right. I mean here
what we need if if the punchline is we
will one day be in a world where where
human labor is is optional at at best I
mean and not and just fundamentally not
necessary right if that's what success
looks like you know we build machines
that can do everything better than we
can it all becomes like chess all the
way down to the plumbers and the
janitors and the and you know mechanics
and people who work with their hands
right I the robots will come eventually,
but before that, you know, we'll have
the the agents that can do everything
that you can do sitting at a desk.
We have to anticipate that, right? Like,
so on that should be good news, right?
It should be just it should usher in
abundance and wealth and and leisure and
and we should be able to to to make the
most of that situation. But we have to
anticipate the transition from where we
are now to that. I mean, this again,
this this leaves aside all the other
ways AI could harm us. This is all just
the good stuff. This is just this these
are just we're just talking about
productivity gains. Talking about one
person who can suddenly do the work of a
thousand because they can spin up a
thousand agents and all of a sudden one
person is a you know can start multiple
companies in in an hour. You know, you
while still running their law firm,
right? you know, and they and they they
fired all their associates and all their
parillegals because they didn't need
them anymore because the robots do all
that stuff better. Okay, if that's if
Mustafa is right and that's the world
we're we'll be in very soon,
we have to figure out politically, we
have to figure out how to share that
success. I mean, again, that that's s
that's what success looks like. That's
not one of the failure modes that we
also have to worry about. That's not
having our robot arsenal hacked by by
China and turned against us, right?
That's not, you know, cyber terrorism
that shuts out the lights on on entire
societies. That's not the, you know, a a
an AI engineered virus that, you know,
makes the stock market disappear for two
weeks and nobody knows how much money
they have, right? Like it's none of the
it's none of the bad stuff. This is all
good stuff which we which is also an
emergency.